Digital display (#589)
Phobos-developers/Phobos: docs/User-Interface.md

  - By default, values are displayed in `current/maximum` format (i.e. 20/40). `HideMaxValue=yes` will make the counter show only the current value (i.e. 20). `Percentage=yes` changes the format to `percent%` (i.e. 50%).
  - `CanSee` and `CanSee.Observer` can limit visibility to specific players.
  - The digits can be either a custom shape (.shp) or text drawn using the game font. This depends on whether `Shape` is set.
    - `Text.Color`, `Text.Color.ConditionYellow` and `Text.Color.ConditionRed` allow customization of the font color. `Text.Background=yes` will additionally draw a black rectangle background.
    - When using shapes, a custom palette can be specified with `Palette`. `Shape.Spacing` controls pixel buffer between characters.
    - Frames 0-9 will be used as digits when the owner's health bar is green, 10-19 when yellow, 20-29 when red. For `/` and `%` characters, frame numbers are 30-31, 32-33, 34-35, respectively.
  - Default `Align` for texts is `right` for BuildingTypes, `center` for others.
  - Default `Align` for shapes is `left` for BuildingTypes, `center` for others.

In `rulesmd.ini`:

> 

Reviewer: Unnecessary empty line between INI name and code block.

```ini
[DigitalDisplayTypes]
0=SOMEDIGITALDISPLAYTYPE

[AudioVisual]
Buildings.DefaultDigitalDisplayTypes=  	; list of DigitalDisplayTypes
Infantry.DefaultDigitalDisplayTypes=   	; list of DigitalDisplayTypes
Vehicles.DefaultDigitalDisplayTypes=   	; list of DigitalDisplayTypes
Aircraft.DefaultDigitalDisplayTypes=   	; list of DigitalDisplayTypes

> [SOMEDIGITALDISPLAYTYPE]				; DigitalDisplayType

Reviewer: Aligment of `; DigitalDisplayType` / the comment should match the ones below it.

; Generic
InfoType=Health                        	; Displayed value enumeration (health|shield|ammo|mindcontrol|spawns|passengers|tiberium|experience|occupants|gattlingstage)
Offset=0,0                             	; integer - horizontal, vertical

> Offset.ShieldDelta=0,0                  ; integer - horizontal, vertical, added to Offset when a techno is shielded, defaults to 0,-10 when InfoType=shield

Reviewer: The description about shielded technos (so everything after `vertical` is redundant since it is mentioned in the comprehensive feature documentation above the code block.

Align=                                 	; Text alignment enumeration, - left|right|center/centre
Anchor.Horizontal=Left                 	; Horizontal position enumeration (left|center/centre|right)
Anchor.Vertical=top                    	; Vertical position enumeration (top|center/centre|bottom)
Anchor.Building=lefttop                	; Hexagon vertex enumeration (top|lefttop|leftbottom|bottom|rightbottom|righttop)
Percentage=no                          	; boolean

> HideMaxValue=no                        	; boolean

Reviewer: Use `true / false` for boolean values in documentation instead of `yes / no`.

CanSee=owner                           	; Affected house enumeration (none|owner/self|allies/ally|team|enemies/enemy|all)

> CanSee.Observer=true                   	; boolean

Reviewer: `CanSee` should be renamed to something that makes it more obvious it takes the house enumeration as a value. For an example, `VisibleToHouses.

; Text
Text.Color=0,255,0                     	; integer - Red,Green,Blue
Text.Color.ConditionYellow=255,255,0   	; integer - Red,Green,Blue
Text.Color.ConditionRed=255,0,0        	; integer - Red,Green,Blue

> Text.Background=no                     	; boolean

Reviewer: Use `true / false` for boolean values in documentation instead of `yes / no`.

; Shape
Shape=                                 	; filename with .shp extension, if not present, game-drawn text will be used instead
Palette=palette.pal                    	; filename with .pal extension

> Shape.Interval=8,0                     	; integer - horizontal and vertical spacing between digits, can be negative, defaults to 8,-4 for buildings

Reviewer: Again, detailed descriptions should be left to the feature descriptions above code block.

[SOMETECHNOTYPE]

> DigitalDisplay.Disable=no              	; boolean

Reviewer: Use `true / false` for boolean values in documentation instead of `yes / no`.

DigitalDisplayTypes=                   	; list of DigitalDisplayTypes

> # (<--Remove) ```

Reviewer: What is the purpose of this line? `# (<--Remove) `

In `Ra2MD.ini`:

> 

Reviewer: Unnecessary empty line between INI name and code block.

In `Ra2MD.ini`:

```ini
DigitalDisplay.Enable=  ; boolean
```

In `rulesmd.ini`:

```ini
[DigitalDisplayTypes] ;New registry for registering digital display types

[AudioVisual]
Buildings.DefaultDigitalDisplayTypes=  ; list of DigitalDisplayTypes
Infantry.DefaultDigitalDisplayTypes=   ; list of DigitalDisplayTypes
Vehicles.DefaultDigitalDisplayTypes=   ; list of DigitalDisplayTypes
Aircraft.DefaultDigitalDisplayTypes=   ; list of DigitalDisplayTypes

[SomeDigitalDisplayType]
; Generic
InfoType=Health                        ; InfoType Enumeration
Offset=0,0                             ; integer - horizontal, vertical
Offset.ShieldDelta=                    ; integer - horizontal, vertical

> Align=None                             ; TextAlign Enumeration, - left|right|center/centre|none

Reviewer 2: `none` (or `<none>`) is not actually a part of enumeration and should not be listed as a value. It's just indicating that there's no value set.

## Battle screen UI/UX

### Digital display

- You can now configure various types of numerical counters to be displayed over Techno to represent its attributes, such as health point or shield point.

![image](_static/images/DigitalDisplay1.png)

![image](_static/images/DigitalDisplay2.png)

- `Acnhor`: Start drawing position anchor to the select bracket.
- `Anchor.Building`: hexagon projection of a selection border on the screen.

- InfoType Enumeration: `health|shield|ammo|mindcontrol|spawns|passengers|tiberium|experience|occupants|gattlingstage`

- Default `Align`:
  - Text: Buildings `right`, others `center`.
  - Shape: Buildings `left`, others `center`.

> 
> - Default `Offset.ShieldDelta`
>   - `InfoType=shield`: `0,-10`
>   - Others: `0,0`
> 
> - Default `Shape.Interval`
>   - Buildings: 8,-4
>   - Others: 8,0
> 
> - `Shape`: Use 0-9 frames of the SHP file as the number used when the ratio is greater than `[AudioVisual]>ConditionYellow`, 10-19 frames as greater than `[AudioVisual]>ConditionRed` and less than or equal to `[AudioVisual]>ConditionYellow`, 20-29 frames as less than or equal `[AudioVisual]>ConditionRed`, 30,31 frames as `/` and `%` when the ratio is greater than `[AudioVisual]>ConditionYellow`, 32,33 frames as greater than `[AudioVisual]>ConditionRed` and less than or equal to `[AudioVisual]>ConditionYellow`, 34,35 frames as less than or equal to `[AudioVisual]>ConditionRed`.
> 
> In `Ra2MD.ini`:
> 
> ```ini
> DigitalDisplay.Enable=  ; boolean
> ```
> 
> In `rulesmd.ini`:
> 
> ```ini
> [DigitalDisplayTypes] ;New registry for registering digital display types
> 
> [AudioVisual]
> Buildings.DefaultDigitalDisplayTypes=  ; list of DigitalDisplayTypes
> Infantry.DefaultDigitalDisplayTypes=   ; list of DigitalDisplayTypes
> Vehicles.DefaultDigitalDisplayTypes=   ; list of DigitalDisplayTypes
> Aircraft.DefaultDigitalDisplayTypes=   ; list of DigitalDisplayTypes
> 
> [SomeDigitalDisplayType]
> ; Generic
> InfoType=Health                        ; InfoType Enumeration
> Offset=0,0                             ; integer - horizontal, vertical
> Offset.ShieldDelta=                    ; integer - horizontal, vertical, offset when shield exist, last offset = Offset + Offset.ShieldDelta
> Align=None                             ; TextAlign Enumeration, - left|right|center/centre|none
> Anchor.Horizontal=Left                 ; Horizontal Position Enumeration, - left|center/centre|right, start drawing point anchor the select bracket
> Anchor.Vertical=top                    ; Vertical Position Enumeration, - top|center/centre|bottom
> Anchor.Building=lefttop                ; Hexagon Vertex Enumeration, top|lefttop|leftright|bottom|rightbottom|rightTop
> Border=Top                             ; Border Position Enumeration, - top|left|right|bottom, Position relative to select bracket's border
> Percentage=no                          ; boolean
> HideMaxValue=no                        ; boolean
> CanSee=owner                           ; Affected House Enumeration (none|owner/self|allies/ally|team|enemies/enemy|all)
> CanSee.Observer=true                   ; boolean
> 
> ; Text
> Text.Color=0,255,0                     ; RGB
> Text.Color.ConditionYellow=255,255,0   ; RGB
> Text.Color.ConditionRed=255,0,0        ; RGB
> Text.Background=no                     ; boolean
> 
> ; Shape
> Shape=                                 ; filename - including the .shp, use shape display if exist
> Palette=palette.pal                    ; filename - including the .pal
> Shape.Interval=                        ; integer - x,y , can be negative, horizontal and vertical spacing between two SHP digitals
> 
> [SomeTechnoType]
> DigitalDisplay.Disable=no              ; boolean
> DigitalDisplayTypes=                   ; list of DigitalDisplayType
> 
> ```
> 

Reviewer 3: Rewrote this section to match style, fix errors and make it clear to readers. I also propose to rename `Shape.Interval` to `Shape.Spacing`, a more fitting word (this of course will need to be changed in code too, but I won't make suggestions everywhere).

I believe that there should additionally be images showing anchor position (especially `Anchor.Building`, as referring to buildings as hexagons might be initially confusing).

```suggestion
### Digital display

![image](_static/images/DigitalDisplay1.png)

![image](_static/images/DigitalDisplay2.png)

- You can now configure various types of numerical counters to be displayed over Techno to represent its attributes, such as health points or shield points.
  - `Anchor.Horizontal` and `Anchor.Vertical` set the anchor point of display relative to unit center. For buildings, `Anchor.Building` is used instead.
    - `Offset` and `Offset.ShieldDelta` (the latter applied when a shield is active) can be used to further modify the position.
  - By default, values are displayed in `current/maximum format` (i.e. 20/40). `HideMaxValue=yes` will make counter show only the current value (i.e. 20). `Percentage=yes` changes the format to `percent%` (i.e. 50%).
  - `CanSee` and `CanSee` observer can limit visibility to specific players.
  - The digits can be either a custom shape or a text drawn using the game font. This depends on wheter `Shape` is set.
    - `Text.Color`, `Text.Color.ConditionYellow` and `Text.Color.ConditionRed` allow to customize font color. `Text.Background=yes` will additionally draw a black rectangle background.
    - When using shapes, a custom palette can be specified with `Palette`. `Shape.Spacing` controls pixel spacing between characters.
    - Frames 0-9 will be used as digits when the owner's health bar is green, 10-19 when yellow, 20-29 when red. For `/` and `%` characters, frame numbers are 30-31, 32-33, 34-35, respectively.
  - Default `Align` for texts is `right` for BuildingTypes, `center` for others.
  - Default `Align` for shapes is `left` for BuildingTypes, `center` for others.

In `rulesmd.ini`:

```ini
[DigitalDisplayTypes]
0=SOMEDIGITALDISPLAYTYPE

[AudioVisual]
Buildings.DefaultDigitalDisplayTypes=  	; list of DigitalDisplayTypes
Infantry.DefaultDigitalDisplayTypes=   	; list of DigitalDisplayTypes
Vehicles.DefaultDigitalDisplayTypes=   	; list of DigitalDisplayTypes
Aircraft.DefaultDigitalDisplayTypes=   	; list of DigitalDisplayTypes

[SOMEDIGITALDISPLAYTYPE]				; DigitalDisplayType
; Generic
InfoType=Health                        	; displayed value enumeration (health|shield|ammo|mindcontrol|spawns|passengers|tiberium|experience|occupants|gattlingstage)
Offset=0,0                             	; integer - horizontal, vertical
Offset.ShieldDelta=0,0                  ; integer - horizontal, vertical, added to Offset when a techno is shielded, defaults to 0,-10 when InfoType=shield
Align=None                             	; Text alignment enumeration, - left|right|center/centre|none
Anchor.Horizontal=Left                 	; Horizontal position enumeration (left|center/centre|right)
Anchor.Vertical=top                    	; Vertical position enumeration (top|center/centre|bottom)
Anchor.Building=lefttop                	; Hexagon vertex enumeration (top|lefttop|leftbottom|bottom|rightbottom|righttop)
Percentage=no                          	; boolean
HideMaxValue=no                        	; boolean
CanSee=owner                           	; Affected house enumeration (none|owner/self|allies/ally|team|enemies/enemy|all)
CanSee.Observer=true                   	; boolean
; Text
Text.Color=0,255,0                     	; integer - Red,Green,Blue
Text.Color.ConditionYellow=255,255,0   	; integer - Red,Green,Blue
Text.Color.ConditionRed=255,0,0        	; integer - Red,Green,Blue
Text.Background=no                     	; boolean
; Shape
Shape=                                 	; filename with .shp extension, if not present, game-drawn text will be used instead
Palette=palette.pal                    	; filename with .pal extension
Shape.Spacing=8,0                     	; integer - horizontal and vertical spacing between digits, can be negative, defaults to 8,-4 for buildings

[SOMETECHNOTYPE]
DigitalDisplay.Disable=no              	; boolean
DigitalDisplayTypes=                   	; list of DigitalDisplayTypes
```

In `RA2MD.ini`:

```ini
DigitalDisplay.Enable=false		; boolean
```

```

Reviewer 4: Some minor changes based on Morton's suggestion:
```suggestion
### Digital display

![image](_static/images/DigitalDisplay1.png)

![image](_static/images/DigitalDisplay2.png)

- You can now configure various types of numerical counters to be displayed over Techno to represent its attributes, such as health points or shield points.
 - `Anchor.Horizontal` and `Anchor.Vertical` set the anchor point from which the display is drawn (depending on `Align`) relative to unit's center/selection box. For buildings, `Anchor.Building` is used instead.
    - `Offset` and `Offset.ShieldDelta` (the latter applied when a shield is active) can be used to further modify the position.
  - By default, values are displayed in `current/maximum` format (i.e. 20/40). `HideMaxValue=yes` will make the counter show only the current value (i.e. 20). `Percentage=yes` changes the format to `percent%` (i.e. 50%).
  - `CanSee` and `CanSee.Observer` can limit visibility to specific players.
  - The digits can be either a custom shape (.shp) or text drawn using the game font. This depends on whether `Shape` is set.
    - `Text.Color`, `Text.Color.ConditionYellow` and `Text.Color.ConditionRed` allow customization of the font color. `Text.Background=yes` will additionally draw a black rectangle background.
    - When using shapes, a custom palette can be specified with `Palette`. `Shape.Spacing` controls pixel buffer between characters.
    - Frames 0-9 will be used as digits when the owner's health bar is green, 10-19 when yellow, 20-29 when red. For `/` and `%` characters, frame numbers are 30-31, 32-33, 34-35, respectively.
  - Default `Align` for texts is `right` for BuildingTypes, `center` for others.
  - Default `Align` for shapes is `left` for BuildingTypes, `center` for others.

In `rulesmd.ini`:

```ini
[DigitalDisplayTypes]
0=SOMEDIGITALDISPLAYTYPE

[AudioVisual]
Buildings.DefaultDigitalDisplayTypes=  	; list of DigitalDisplayTypes
Infantry.DefaultDigitalDisplayTypes=   	; list of DigitalDisplayTypes
Vehicles.DefaultDigitalDisplayTypes=   	; list of DigitalDisplayTypes
Aircraft.DefaultDigitalDisplayTypes=   	; list of DigitalDisplayTypes

[SOMEDIGITALDISPLAYTYPE]				; DigitalDisplayType
; Generic
InfoType=Health                        	; Displayed value enumeration (health|shield|ammo|mindcontrol|spawns|passengers|tiberium|experience|occupants|gattlingstage)
Offset=0,0                             	; integer - horizontal, vertical
Offset.ShieldDelta=0,0                  ; integer - horizontal, vertical, added to Offset when a techno is shielded, defaults to 0,-10 when InfoType=shield
Align=None                             	; Text alignment enumeration, - left|right|center/centre|none
Anchor.Horizontal=Left                 	; Horizontal position enumeration (left|center/centre|right)
Anchor.Vertical=top                    	; Vertical position enumeration (top|center/centre|bottom)
Anchor.Building=lefttop                	; Hexagon vertex enumeration (top|lefttop|leftbottom|bottom|rightbottom|righttop)
Percentage=no                          	; boolean
HideMaxValue=no                        	; boolean
CanSee=owner                           	; Affected house enumeration (none|owner/self|allies/ally|team|enemies/enemy|all)
CanSee.Observer=true                   	; boolean
; Text
Text.Color=0,255,0                     	; integer - Red,Green,Blue
Text.Color.ConditionYellow=255,255,0   	; integer - Red,Green,Blue
Text.Color.ConditionRed=255,0,0        	; integer - Red,Green,Blue
Text.Background=no                     	; boolean
; Shape
Shape=                                 	; filename with .shp extension, if not present, game-drawn text will be used instead
Palette=palette.pal                    	; filename with .pal extension
Shape.Spacing=8,0                     	; integer - horizontal and vertical spacing between digits, can be negative, defaults to 8,-4 for buildings

[SOMETECHNOTYPE]
DigitalDisplay.Disable=no              	; boolean
DigitalDisplayTypes=                   	; list of DigitalDisplayTypes
# (<--Remove) ```

In `Ra2MD.ini`:

```ini
[Phobos]
DigitalDisplay.Enable=false  ; boolean
# (<--Remove) ```

```

Reviewer 2: > `Shape.Interval` to `Shape.Spacing`, a more fitting word (this of course will need to be changed in code too, but I won't make suggestions everywhere).

Unless the logic is changed not really, it's currently working like an interval between characters, so if the character is 4 pixel wide - you're going to set something like 5 px interval so that the display has 1 px of space between characters.
